feat: blog post biome v2.5 (#4296)
biomejs/website: src/content/docs/blog/biome-v2-5.mdx

---
title: "Biome v2.5—500 Lint Rules, Plugin Code Fix, and Cross-File Linting"
excerpt: |
  Biome 2.5 crosses 500 lint rules, ships code fixes for GritQL plugins, adds the `delimiterSpacing` formatter option, watcher mode, concise reporter, and more than 70 rules stabilized.
authors:
  - ema
  - team
date: 2026-06-05
cover:
  light: "@/assets/blog/biome-v2-5/500-light.png"
  dark: "@/assets/blog/biome-v2-5/500-dark.png"
  alt: The brand of the project. It says "Biome, toolchain of the web"
socialImage: "@/assets/social-logo.png"
---
import Contributor from "@/components/Contributor.astro"

## 500 lint rules

> With this release, Biome has surpassed 500 rules! It took us a very long time, but we're thrilled about this milestone. The release also promotes over 70 rules spread among the Vue framework, type-aware rules, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this release, Biome has surpassed **500 rules**! It took us a very long time, but we're thrilled about this milestone. The release also promotes over 70 rules spread among the Vue framework, type-aware rules, and more.
```

---
title: "Biome v2.5—500 Lint Rules, Plugin Code Fix, and Cross-File Linting"
excerpt: |
  Biome 2.5 crosses 500 lint rules, ships code fixes for GritQL plugins, adds the `delimiterSpacing` formatter option, watcher mode, concise reporter, and more than 70 rules stabilized.
authors:
  - ema
  - team
date: 2026-06-05
cover:
  light: "@/assets/blog/biome-v2-5/500-light.png"
  dark: "@/assets/blog/biome-v2-5/500-dark.png"
  alt: The brand of the project. It says "Biome, toolchain of the web"
socialImage: "@/assets/social-logo.png"
---
import Contributor from "@/components/Contributor.astro"

## 500 lint rules

> With this release, Biome has surpassed 500 rules! It took us a very long time, but we're thrilled of this milestone. The release also promotes over 70 rules spread among Vue framework, type-aware, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, Biome has surpassed 500 rules! It took us a very long time, but we're thrilled about this milestone. The release also promotes over 70 rules spread among the Vue framework, type-aware rules, and more.
```

However, I want to provide the spotlight to three particular rules.

### Cross-language lint rules

The rules `noUndeclaredClasses` and `noUnusedClasses` are two new nursery rules that use the powerful Biome module graph.

> The rule `noUnusedClasses` analyses all the CSS clases defined in your project, and emits a diagnostic if the class isn't used in any HTML-ish files or JSX files.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rule `noUnusedClasses` analyses all the CSS classes defined in your project, and emits a diagnostic if the class isn't used in any HTML-ish files or JSX files.
```

> The rule `noUndeclaredClasses` analyses the `class` and `className` attributes of all your HTML-ish files and JSX files, and emits a diagnostic if a class hasn't been defined in any of CSS files or `<style>` tags. It also detects the `:global()` pseudo-selector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rule `noUndeclaredClasses` analyses the `class` and `className` attributes of all your HTML-ish files and JSX files, and emits a diagnostic if a class hasn't been defined in any of the CSS files or `<style>` tags. It also detects the `:global()` pseudo-selector.
```

### `noRestrictedDependencies`

> This rule is an homage to the [e18e initiative](https://e18e.dev/) and their [https://replacements.fyi/](https://replacements.fyi/) website, and their [`ban-dependencies` lint rule](https://github.com/e18e/eslint-plugin#module-replacements).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule is an homage to the [e18e initiative](https://e18e.dev/) and their [https://replacements.fyi/](https://replacements.fyi/) website & [`ban-dependencies` lint rule](https://github.com/e18e/eslint-plugin#module-replacements).
```

Perhaps? The double "and" feels a bit odd

Reviewer 2: Agree, just a heads up in the first suggestion it should be a "," instead of a "." after "e18e initiative"

Reviewer: Oops, accidentally left the old suggestion in. Removed the first one

Author: Please change `&` to `and`

Reviewer: Then it becomes a double "and" again, which feels weird as if they are 3 items of a single list. While it's parent with 2 underlying items. So with the "&" the lists feels seperated (if that makes sense).

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/punctuation-capitalization/ampersand/#:~:text=Items%20in%20a%20series%20that%20use%20and

Author: Ok no problem, feel free to apply the suggestion

> This rule uses their data to detect packages that are deemed replaceable due to being deprecated, heavy, or because there's a native alternative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rule uses their data to detect dependencies that are deemed replaceable due to being deprecated, heavy, or because there's a native alternative.
```

Would perhaps use "dependencies" over "packages", also used in the rule name

#### Complexity

Promoted the following rules to the `complexity` group:

- [`useArrayFind`](/linter/rules/use-array-find/)
- [`noRedundantDefaultExport`](/linter/rules/no-redundant-default-export/)
- [`noUselessReturn`](/linter/rules/no-useless-return/)
- [`noDivRegex`](/linter/rules/no-div-regex/)

#### Performance

Promoted the following rules to the `performance` group:

- [`noSyncScripts`](/linter/rules/no-sync-scripts/)
- [`noJsxPropsBind`](/linter/rules/no-jsx-props-bind/)
- [`useVueVapor`](/linter/rules/use-vue-vapor/)

#### Security

Promoted the following rules to the `security` group:

- [`noScriptUrl`](/linter/rules/no-script-url/) (recommended)

#### A11y

Promoted the following rules to the `a11y` group:

- [`noAmbiguousAnchorText`](/linter/rules/no-ambiguous-anchor-text/) (recommended)

## Plugin improvements

This release ships two important enhancements for GritQL plugins inside Biome, thanks to contributor <Contributor handle="chocky335" />.

### Apply plugins to specific paths

You can now specify which paths a plugin should be applied to, using the `includes` setting. The option accepts globs and negate globs, so you can

> whilelist and denylist paths based on your needs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now specify which paths a plugin should be applied to, using the `includes` setting. The option accepts globs and negative globs, so you can whitelist and denylist paths based on your needs:
```

In the following example, the first plugin only runs on files inside

> `src/components/`. The second plugin runs on all files that have the extension `.ts` under `src/` folder, except for files that end with `.test.ts` in the `src/` folder:

Reviewer 2: I believe the second "in the src folder" is redundant and can be omitted.
```suggestion
In the following example, the first plugin only runs on files inside `src/components/`. The second plugin runs on all files that have the extension `.ts` under the `src/` folder, except for files that end with `.test.ts`:
```

Author: @yanthomasdev this was copied from the docs, we should probably address that too

```json title="biome.json" ins="\"includes\""
{
    "plugins": [
        {
            "path": "./react-plugin.grit",
            "includes": ["src/components/**"]
        },
        {
            "path": "./ts-only-plugin.grit",
            "includes": ["src/**/*.ts", "!src/**/*.test.ts"]
        }
    ]
}
```

### Code fix for plugins

Plugins can now declare a code fix, where appropriate. To register a code fix, you can use the `=>` symbol and specify the new code.

> The `register_diagnostic` functon now accepts a `fix_kind` option where you can decide the entity of the fix.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `register_diagnostic` function now accepts a `fix_kind` option where you can decide the entity of the fix.
```

> By default, code fixes of plugins are marked as `"unsafe"`, and they are applied when you fun `lint` or `check` with `--write --unsafe`. You can explicitly use `"safe"`, and the code fix is applied when you use `--write` via CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, code fixes of plugins are marked as `"unsafe"`, and they are applied when you run `lint` or `check` with `--write --unsafe`. You can explicitly use `"safe"`, and the code fix is applied when you use `--write` via CLI.
```

> The following examples how to change a `$call` of a `console.log` function, and the fix is "safe":

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to change a `$call` of a `console.log` function with a "safe" fix:
```

```txt title="no-console-log.grit" ins="\"safe\"" ins={6,8}
`console.log($msg)` as $call where {
    register_diagnostic(
        span = $call,
        message = "Use console.info instead of console.log.",
        severity = "warn",
        fix_kind = "safe"
    ),
    $call => `console.info($msg)`
}
```

## New `delimiterSpacing` formatter option

We are very excited about this new option. The team felt this option was worth having it because it will help people with dyslexia.

> However, at the time of acceptance, the team didn't have the resources to implement it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are very excited about this new option. The team felt this option was worth having because it will help people with dyslexia. However, at the time of acceptance, the team didn't have the resources to implement it.
```

> Contributors <Contributor handle="sirreal" /> and <Contributor handle="luisherranz" /> are the real heroes here, they implemented the option for JavaScript, CSS, JSON, and GraphQL!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Contributors <Contributor handle="sirreal" /> and <Contributor handle="luisherranz" /> are the real heroes here; they implemented the option for JavaScript, CSS, JSON, and GraphQL!
```

When enabled, the formatter adds spaces to language-delimiters:

```json title="biome.json" ins={3}
{
  "formatter": {
    "delimiterSpacing": true
  }
}
```

```diff
-function name(param) {
+function name( param )
-  return [1, 3, 4]
+  return [ 1, 3, 4 ]
}
```

The option behaves differently based on the language, so make sure to consult the [documentation](/reference/configuration#formatterdelimiterspacing) of each language.

## Watch mode

> Since version v2.0, Biome has shipped with its own file watcher. Biome uses the file watcher to provide real-time diagnostics for [type-aware lint rule](/linter/domains#types) and [project lint rules](/linter/domains#project). When a file changes, types and module graph are updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since version v2.0, Biome has shipped with its own file watcher. Biome uses the file watcher to provide real-time diagnostics for [type-aware lint rules](/linter/domains#types) and [project lint rules](/linter/domains#project). When a file changes, types and the module graph are updated.
```

> With v2.5, we now expose the watcher to the `lint`, `format` and `check` commands with the `--watch` option. When in watch mode, Biome listens to files changes that belong to the project, and emits diagnostics while typing. Watch mode works only in read mode, which means you can't use `--fix` or `--write`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With v2.5, we now expose the watcher to the `lint`, `format`, and `check` commands with the `--watch` option. When in watch mode, Biome listens to file changes that belong to the project and emits diagnostics while typing. Watch mode works only in read mode, which means you can't use `--fix` or `--write`.
```

> You can use [`BIOME_WATCHER_KIND`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_kind) and [`BIOME_WATCHER_POLLING`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_polling) to change the behaviour of the wathcer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use [`BIOME_WATCHER_KIND`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_kind) and [`BIOME_WATCHER_POLLING`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_polling) to change the behavior of the watcher.
```

## Go-to definition

The Biome Language server now supports the "go-to definition" feature.

When the cursor of the mouse is hovering an entity (variable, CSS class, type, etc.), and the command <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + click is triggered, the editor jumps to where this entity is defined, if the language server can find it.

> Here's what Biome is able to resolve:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's what Biome can resolve:
```

- Variables and types used in JavaScript modules, defined in the same file or imported from another module.
- JSX Components used in JavaScript modules, defined in the same file or imported from another module.
- CSS classes used in JSX and HTML-ish files (Vue, Svelte and Astro), and defined in CSS files.
- Components used in HTML-ish files and defined in other HTML-ish.
- Variables used in HTML-ish files and defined in the same file or imported from another module (JavaScript or HTML-ish).

## Linter preset option

Introduce the option [`linter.rules.preset`](/reference/configuration#linterrulespreset), to provide better control over which rules should be

> enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added the [`linter.rules.preset`](/reference/configuration#linterrulespreset) option, giving you better control over which rules should be enabled by default.
```

> Among the available presets, there's the `"all"` preset that allows enabling all rules, expect for the nursery rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Among the available presets, there's the `"all"` preset that allows enabling all rules, except for the nursery rules.
```

- When VCS ignore files are enabled, Biome now respects `.git/info/exclude` in the same way as `.gitignore`, including in linked worktrees. Than you <Contributor handle="jongwan56" />
- The new `html.parser.vue` option enables Vue syntax parsing in regular `.html` files for projects that embed Vue syntax outside `.vue` files.
- The JavaScript API now exposes `spanInBytesToSpanInCodeUnits`, which converts byte-based diagnostic spans into UTF-16 code unit spans for JavaScript strings.
- Several rules received new options, including `noUnusedVariables.ignore`, `useIterableCallbackReturn.allowImplicit`, `useNumericSeparators` grouping options, `noUndeclaredDependencies.bundleDependencies`, and `noImplicitCoercions.allowDoubleNegation`.

For a detailed list of all the new changes, consult the [changelog.](internals/changelog/version/2-5-0/)

## I like where this is going, how can I help?

I want to remind you that Biome is a project led by volunteers who like programming, open-source, and embrace the Biome philosophy, so any help is welcome.

### Translations

> If you are familiar with Biome and would like to contribute to its outreach, you can assist us by translating the website into your native language. In this [dashboard](/i18n-dashboard/), you can check the supported languages and if they are up-to-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are familiar with Biome and would like to contribute to its outreach, you can assist us by translating the website into your native language. In this [dashboard](/i18n-dashboard/), you can check the supported languages and whether they are up-to-date.
```

### Chat with us

Join our [Discord server](/chat), and engage with the community. Chatting with the community and being part of the community is a form of contribution.

### Code contributions

If you like the technical aspects of the project, and you want to make your way into the Rust language, or practice your knowledge around parsers, compilers, analysers, etc., Biome is the project for you!

There are numerous aspects to explore; I assure you that you won't get bored. Here is a small list of the things you can start with:

- Create new lint rules! We have so many rules that we haven't implemented yet (ESLint, ESLint plugins, Next.js, Solid, etc.). We have a very [extensive technical guide](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/blob/main/crates/biome_analyze/CONTRIBUTING.md).

> - [Help](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/blob/main/crates/biome_parser/CONTRIBUTING.md) [building](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_yaml_parser) [Biome](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_html_parser) [parsers](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_markdown_parser)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Help us build [Biome's parsers](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/blob/main/crates/biome_parser/CONTRIBUTING.md) for languages such as [YAML](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_yaml_parser), [HTML](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_html_parser), and [Markdown](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_markdown_parser).
```

Author: This was a copy paste. I should review

> One interesting fact about Biome parsers is that they are recoverable parsers [error resilient](/internals/architecture/#parser-and-cst) which emit a [CST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parse_tree) instead of a classic AST.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One interesting fact about Biome parsers is that they are recoverable parsers ([error-resilient](/internals/architecture/#parser-and-cst)), which emit a [CST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parse_tree) instead of a classic AST.
```

> - Implement new capabilities in our [LSP (Language Server Protocol)](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_lsp), or add new features in one of our editor extensions: [VS Code](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-vscode), [Zed](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-zed) and [JetBrains IntelliJ](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-intellij).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Implement new capabilities in our [LSP (Language Server Protocol)](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_lsp), or add new features in one of our editor extensions: [VS Code](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-vscode), [Zed](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-zed), and [JetBrains IntelliJ](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-intellij).
```

### Financial help

If you believe in the future of the project, you can also help with a financial contribution, via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/biome) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/biomejs).

> Additionally, the project provides an [enterprise support program ](/enterprise) where you as a company can employ one of the core contributors to work a specific aspect of the Biome toolchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the project provides an [enterprise support program](/enterprise) where you as a company can employ one of the core contributors to work on a specific aspect of the Biome toolchain.
```

```diff
-function name(param) {
+function name( param )
-  return [1, 3, 4]
+  return [ 1, 3, 4 ]
}
```

The option behaves differently based on the language, so make sure to consult the [documentation](/reference/configuration#formatterdelimiterspacing) of each language.

## Watch mode

Since version v2.0, Biome has shipped with its own file watcher. Biome uses the file watcher to provide real-time diagnostics for [type-aware lint rules](/linter/domains#types) and [project lint rules](/linter/domains#project). When a file changes, types and the module graph are updated.

With v2.5, we now expose the watcher to the `lint`, `format`, and `check` commands with the `--watch` option. When in watch mode, Biome listens to file changes that belong to the project and emits diagnostics while typing. Watch mode works only in read mode, which means you can't use `--fix` or `--write`.

You can use [`BIOME_WATCHER_KIND`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_kind) and [`BIOME_WATCHER_POLLING`](/reference/environment-variables/#biome_watcher_polling) to change the behavior of the watcher.

## Go-to definition

The Biome Language server now supports the "go-to definition" feature.

> When the cursor of the mouse is hovering an entity (variable, CSS class, type, etc.), and the command <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + click is triggered, the editor jumps to where this entity is defined, if the language server can find it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the mouse cursor is hovering an entity (variable, CSS class, type, etc.), and the command <kbd>CTRL</kbd> + click is triggered, the editor jumps to where this entity is defined, if the language server can find it.
```

- Help us build [Biome's parsers](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/blob/main/crates/biome_parser/CONTRIBUTING.md) for languages such as [YAML](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_yaml_parser), [HTML](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_html_parser), and [Markdown](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_markdown_parser).
One interesting fact about Biome parsers is that they are recoverable parsers ([error-resilient](/internals/architecture/#parser-and-cst)), which emit a [CST](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parse_tree) instead of a classic AST.
- Implement new capabilities in our [LSP (Language Server Protocol)](https://github.com/biomejs/biome/tree/main/crates/biome_lsp), or add new features in one of our editor extensions: [VS Code](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-vscode), [Zed](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-zed), and [JetBrains IntelliJ](https://github.com/biomejs/biome-intellij).

### Financial help

> If you believe in the future of the project, you can also help with a financial contribution, via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/biome) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/biomejs).

Reviewer 2: comma nit
```suggestion
If you believe in the future of the project, you can also help with a financial contribution via [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/biome) or [GitHub Sponsors](https://github.com/sponsors/biomejs).
```
